Canada has been very busy lately working
hard on their booming oil market the
world has been truly jealous with sound
monetary principles and an economy worth
writing home about Canada has been the
model of success and now back to reality
you came here for the truth today we're
going to look at Canada just two days
ago I did a video talking about this
issue and here it is coming to fruition
let's begin Bank of Canada increases
overnight rate target to 1% this is
directly from the Bank of Canada's own
website 1% is historically low I
understand
however the precedent has been set they
are going to increase interest rates the
Fed is doing it Bank of Canada is doing
it and they will continue to do so
knowing that the economy cannot
withstand this so why would they do that
then well this is the drying up of
liquidity how do you cause a collapse
all you have to do is pull back on the
liquidity don't worry about any of the
fundamentals because the central banks
are the ones who own and control this
system when we believe that what we are
seeing is reality we are unfortunately
being swindled let's move on looking at
this chart here from trading economics
it's obvious we are at levels that are
very low even compared to just prior to
the financial crisis if they were to
raise up to that level yet again we
would have a calamity that the Canadians
haven't seen in a very very long time
but even if they don't get that high
let's just say they hit this 3 percent
mark imagine how high real estate the
mortgage rates would be obviously the
market
can sustain that it's only able to
sustain where it's at because interest
rates are this low so I just did a video
two days ago and one of the topics that
I discussed was this the decline is due
to the rise in home prices what we're
talking about is the homeowners
bankruptcy index and this in fact is one
of the ways that the data can be skewed
so that people are made to look better
than they actually are and one of the
ways that people have been expanding
their debt is that two million Canadians
are taking out home equity line of
credit and even more with a second
mortgage and they simply take on more
debt and they tack that on to their
mortgage believing that as long as home
prices rise we have nothing to worry
about as long as interest rates remain
low we have nothing to worry about but
unfortunately that's not the case it
looks like they're increasing rates they
could reverse course absolutely but at
least at this time we know what they are
up to so if you want more details about
this I won't cover it again just look
two videos back from today and you'll
get my full explanation on that and this
right here it's a full breakdown we'll
see how far I'll get in this one in the
wake of the Bank of Canada's move
Wednesday to boost a key interest rate
Canada's big banks have boosted their
prime rates so you need to understand
that the central bank acts and then the
commercial banks act accordingly and in
fact they don't even have to wait for
the central bank we saw that with
mortgage rate starting to increase
before the central bank even did what
they said they would do so here we go
prime rates at 3.2 percent up from two
point nine five so the significance of
this you know right away it doesn't make
too much
the difference but when you think about
it in let's say a six month period if
they were able to increase rates twice
within that time that's 50 basis points
that could be more significant and what
they note here is that it's going to
raise borrowing cost a little bit for
everyone and that is very key because
you have to remember it's not just you
and I that we have to worry about it's
your neighbor down the street it's all
of the loans along the way and this
article here covers different aspects
I'm just gonna quickly go through it
then mortgages for example obviously
that that's pretty obvious here lines of
credit and home equity loans I just told
you that millions upon millions of
people are doing this so right here
you're looking at this households added
10 billion dollars to their consumer
credit balances in each of the past four
quarters think about that how much debt
is being added onto the backs of each
individual every single day but they
don't want to think about it because
real estate prices are rising the debt
can continue to expand and the economy
is red-hot that's literally what they
said no no don't worry about the
homeless people on every single corner
of the of downtown Toronto don't worry
about the fact that the shelters are at
full capacity don't worry about the fact
that the job market is not exactly what
they say it should be the fact that
every single business out there somehow
either a bank financial establishment of
some sort an insurance company and
they've got all the big towers
manufacturing nowhere to be found
great high-paying jobs nowhere to be
found
but you have a few CEOs making very good
money you have a whole bunch of
basically office workers that are
essentially factory workers now making
low wages or lower wages then you have
an army of those people and then you
have you know odds and ends here and
their service based jobs lower paying
jobs but we don't want to talk
borrowing for banks accounted for the
bulk of the rise led by personal lines
of credit notably home equity loans
lines of credit think about that again
as I just mentioned that the fact that
when people have taken on so much debt
and they've used these lines of credit
all of a sudden that borrowing cost is
going to get more of a burden on these
people going to become more of a burden
all right talking about variable rate
mortgages obviously immediately so many
people have told me that it is very
foolish to purchase a home to get debt
without a variable rate but you have to
realize that I would rather get a fixed
rate even if it's higher even if it's
relatively higher just to know that for
the next five years this is the rate I'm
going to pay I can guarantee that
they're not going to be able to change
that on me instead of a variable rate
where I have to worry isn't gonna go up
what am I going to be able to pay the
payments just do fixed rate but no no
nobody does that all right then we talk
about credit cards where it says that
you know for the most part they are at
standard rates but a lot of people carry
a lot of debt on them regardless and I
think that puts a burden on them student
loans as well they're talking about and
and some more information here I'll just
move on interest rates are going up
again as Canada's red hot economy all
right that's the one I was talking about
red hot economy I you know I'm from
Toronto
I've speak with people in the different
industries whether that is in the gold
mining I've spoken to people in the
financial industries banks all types
investment companies everything okay and
I get a sense of what's going on I also
talked to the average Joe and try to get
an idea of what they believe and there
is a general consensus here is that real
estate prices will go up for it
and that is not your opinion or not my
opinion I'm saying what I've gathered
here from from the average individual
they believe that as in as the prices
decline the central bank or what they
would say the government will step in
and they will fix it that's just a
matter of fact because they believe that
this can continue forever and that is
such a foolish belief to have and
unfortunately people are going to lose
out big time as a result of this belief
you can see that in this article here it
talks about the fact that because of
what they did
the Canadian dollar has gone up to 82
cents u.s. so that is some interesting
information because it seems like the US
dollar doesn't necessarily have anything
to do with what they do with interest
rates anymore and neither should any of
these other currencies because they're
all weighted against each other and they
are all just part of the same compost
heap it's a bunch of garbage that we are
being forced to use you're not allowed
to use competing currencies you're not
allowed to go against what they say they
dictate the policies they do all of the
these regulations and laws and
everything they put that all in place
and you're forced to swallow it down if
you found this video informative please
give me a thumbs up my fellow Canadians
please give me a thumbs up as well and
last but not least if you found this
video informative I know you'll find my
books the money GPS and my newer release
global economic collapse even more
informative so if you want to look
through these books you can do so at
Amazon they have a look inside feature
that will allow you to flip through the
pages of these books links are in the
description below I also wanted to
mention the fact that if you haven't
already you need to subscribe to this
channel it is very important because I'm
constantly doing videos you need to
check out
every single day if you're not
subscribed if you hit that subscribe
button there's a little bell beside it
if you hit that and you will make sure
that you are aware of every single one
of my videos so I hope to see you here
again leave me a comment down below I
always like to see the positive and the
constructive criticisms that individuals
have for the channel
I do appreciate very much take care